>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
that means that a1 constructor and
a2.constructor point at the same location.
You'll notice that I'm using this linkage,
but
I don't have any direct way
to say where is a1 linked to?
And early on in JavaScript they said
that's kind of a gap in functionality.
It would be nice for me to ask,
given any object, where is it linked to?
What is its prototype linkage?
This by the way, is an internal linkage,
it's not accessible from the outside.
So how do we get a public way
to access that prototype?
Well it turns out they
added a temporary hack,
this __proto thing that
we see there on line 17.
__proto__ is a really long way
of saying that property name,
and it also doesn't make
me sound very cool.
So I'm gonna do what the cool kids do, and
I'm gonna refer to that as dunder proto.
That's just a made up way of
pronouncing that property name.
So they made up dunder proto,
and they said let's make a property
that exposes the internal link.
So if I call a1.__proto__,
I get Foo.prototype.
That's cool, right?
Unfortunately, that dunder proto
was not a standard thing so
that's why it got named in that weird way.
And as soon as they named it in that
way and they said, don't use it,
this is just a temporary thing until we
configure out what it should be called,
guess what everybody did?
They started writing code relying upon it,
proving yet again that old adage,
there's nothing more permanent
than a temporary hack.
Cuz as soon as they started using it, it
became a permanent part of the platform.
You fast forward 18 or 19 years, and
they were forced essentially,
to finally standardize it.
So now, as of ES 6,
there's a dunder proto in the spec.
That is the public property that
exposes the internal linkage.
>> Kyle Simpson: For
about 15 of those 18 years,
there was one browser that didn't
wanna play by those same rules,
that didn't wanna do the dunder proto
even though everybody else did it.
Can you guess which browser
that might have been?
>> Speaker 2: IE?
>> Kyle Simpson: IE, they're like no,
no, no we don't wanna add that,
it's not standard,
which is super hypocritical because they
added a bunch of non standard stuff.
But they're like no,
we don't wanna add dunder proto.
Once it was finally added to
ES6 they relented and added it.
So now, as of the latest versions
of Edge that are ES6 compliant,
you can rely on dunder proto to ask,
where does this object link to?
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
Now in ES5, which was several years ago,
back in 2009, they did add a utility.
They couldn't agree on dunder proto, but
they did add a utility which we see
on line 15, Object.getPrototypeOf.
That is a special utility that
can reach into an object and
tell you what its internal linkage is.
So that's the same thing
as calling a1.__proto__.
IE did add that, so we have that
utility all the way back to IE9.
But what about those unfortunate souls
that have to support IE6, 7 and 8?
Well we have the third and
final crazy hack, follow with me.
If I wanna get from a1 to Foo.prototype,
but
I don't have dunder proto, and
I don't have getPrototypeOf,
here's what I can do,
a1.constructor.prototype.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah it really is as
ugly and hacky as it just sounded.
Let me do that again,
a1.contructor.prototype.
Now that's the hacky way,
back in the day that we figured
out where is this thing linked to.
The only problem is that .constructor and
.prototype,
both of those properties are writable.
So if either or both of them gets changed,
all bets are out the window.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's a good thing we
finally have a standardized way of
figuring out where one
object links to another.
Now in that understanding, if I call
a1.identify, does a1 have an identify?
>> Kyle Simpson: No, so
what are we gonna do?
>> Kyle Simpson: We're gonna walk
up the prototype chain one link,
and we're gonna say,
does this object have an identify?
So we're gonna call that function,
now we're gonna be on line 5.
What is the this key word on
line 5 gonna be pointing at?
>> Kyle Simpson: If my call
site says a1.identify,
what is the this keyword on
line 5 gonna be pointing at?
>> Speaker 2: A1.
>> Kyle Simpson: A1, there's the implicit
binding rule.
You might have wondered why is
dynamic function context useful,
here's why it's useful.
Cuz we can locate functions
on different objects and
the call site is the thing that
decides what its context is.
Because if we wanna get the me
property off of a1 not the me property
that doesn't even exist on Foo prototype.
So, we call a1.identify, and
it just magically works because
of the this binding rules.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, now we finally
see that this prototype chain is
the symmetrical mirror to
the lexical scope chain.
These are two separate buildings
that exist in JavaScript.
You can see that when we start at
the current scope and we go up the lexical
scopes, that's conceptually almost
the same as starting at the current this
object, and walking up the link of
objects in the prototype chain.
The this and prototype chain is the
dynamic form of the lexical scope chain.
When I discovered this several years back
studying JavaScript, it kinda blew my mind
because I realized what a powerful concept
that was that nobody was talking about.
That we have both of these systems
built into the same language,
it's the best of both worlds.
But we haven't been taught to
think independently about them, so
we haven't known how to fully
take advantage of that power.